---
layout: post
title: Preserving the currency of genomics outcomes over time through selective re-computation&#58; techniques, initial findings, and open challenges
speaker: Dr Paolo Missier and Dr Jacek Cala
comments: true
category: upcoming
tags: meeting <+ tags +>
---

__Time and Location:__ Monday 20th November 2017 10:45-12:00, Urban Sciences Building USB2.022
 
__Abstract:__
Complex and computationally expensive processes are common in many areas of bioinformatics, e.g. in genomics and metagenomics. The outcomes of such processes are time-sensitive, as they depend on algorithms, tools, and reference databases which all evolve over time, often independently of one another.  This suggests that some of the processes may need to be repeatedly re-computed in response  to these changes, in order to refresh their outcomes. However, these computations can be expensive, consuming tens of CPU hours each, and not all past cases will be affected by all changes.

In the ReComp project, we investigate general methods for optimising re-computation of workflow-based processes in response to changes in the underlying reference data. We have chosen a metadata analytics  approach: for each execution, e.g. of a variant calling pipeline, we record metadata (provenance) about the process execution, its inputs, outputs, and dependencies.  These records form an ever-growing history database that we can then use to assess the future impact of observed changes and to optimise the re-computation.

In this talk we will present a generic selective re-computation framework and how it applies to our genomics case study.

We outline a number of open research challenges that emerge from our initial investigation, including learning useful predictive models of change impact from the history database. 

test
